---
title: "Week 1"
weight: 1
---

 Title: : Intro to Personal Financial Management + Who Are the Millionares? + Financial Planning in a World of Credit and Debt
Reading: Chapters 1, 2, and 3 
[Videos](https://bcourses.berkeley.edu/courses/1510296/pages/required-videos?module_item_id=16405776) 

## Chapter 1: Introduction
1. What is our definition of a millionaire? **Those financially indpendent to take care of themselves**
2. If the biggest financial problem is no longer retirement, what is it? **Lonegivity is the biggesst problem, living beyond what you planned for**
3. Do most people pay more in Social Security and Medicare than federal income taxes? **Most people pay more in SS and Medicare taxes than federal income taxes**
4. What is the difference between being rich and being wealthy? **Wealth is lifestyle**
5. What did the Nightingale/Conant study conclude about financial independence? **Out of 100 people who started work at 25 and worked till 65, only 5 will be financially independent** 

## Chapter 2: Who Are The Millionaires?
1. What is the “cornerstone” of wealth? **Maintaining frugality and being value-oriented (not necccesarily cheap)**
2. Do the vast majority of millionaires have college degrees? **80% do**
3. Is becoming a millionaire a choice, you can make? **Yes**
4. What is a “homepreneur”? **An increasing number of people who have a second business which may account for over 50% of the income, despsite being based from their home and also possibly working at a large corporation**
5. People who succeed have goals.  Over the next two years, what is your 
goal? **Work hard. Live life. Achieve goals. Dominate.**

## Chapter 3: Credit, Debt, and Money
1. How do you establish good credit? **Borrow money and pay it back on time according to terms**
2. When is the best time to establish credit? **When you do not need it**
3. What is the difference between a credit card and a debit card? **Debit is immediate and cash, credit is a line that you pay** #expand upon later
4. How can you avoid credit card fees and penalties? **Bewing aware of what consists of a penalty or consitutes a fee**
5. What is the first thing you should do if your credit card is lost or stolen? **Call the credit car issuer (bank) immediately**