---
title: "Week 2"
weight: 2
---
Title : Financial Planning in a World of Credit and Debt (continued) +
Contracts + Understanding Social Security, Medicare and You 
Reading: Chapters 4,5, and 6 
[Videos](https://bcourses.berkeley.edu/courses/1510296/pages/required-videos?module_item_id=16405776) 

## Chapter 4: Credit Reports and Credit Scores
1. What is the difference between a credit report and a credit score? **Credit report is an individual financial report card that describes if the subject of the report has been making credit card and loan payments on time (includes a great deal of personal information), while a credit score is a culmination of the info on your credit report** 
2. Who are the 3 major credit reporting agencies? ***1. Transunion (Empririca score) 2. Equifax (Beacon score) 3. Experian (Experian model)**
3. To change your credit score, what do you need to do? **Change the info on your credit report (i.e. be better (less of a credit risk))**
4. What does "faith" create that enables growth? **?**
5. What enables you to borrow more money than you earn? **?**

## Chapter 5: Contracts Can Be Dangerous to Your Health
1. What is a contract? **A binding agreement enterted volunatrily by 2+ competent parties** 
2. What is consideration? **A mututal obligation to perform, and that something of value is to be exchanged &rarr; either a detriment incurred by by person making the promise or a benefit reciveed by the other party**
3. How many contracts do you have now? **Quite a few, employment, to real estatem debit cardsm insurance, cell phone, etc** 
4. What does the 'contract checklist' cover? **Length of contract (how long you are required to be paid or pay and when), what cnstitutes the end of a contract (date/time, an event, is it renewable? can you terminate early, etc), Be knowledgable about how amendments can be made to the contract, as well as what occurs if either party fails to perfrom.**
5. What is a Notary Public? **Public officers, constituted by law, to witness the execution of certain classes of non-contentious documents (including moirtage docs, wills, deeds, etc)**

## Chapter 6: Social Security and Medicare
1. To recieve social security benefits, what are the 4 basic requirements? **1. Age 2. The required number of quarters you have paid into the system 3. A minimal amount of incom earned over those quarters 4. You must be a citizen or lawful alien to recieve benefits** 
2. Can social security benefits be considered taxable income? **85% of SS benefits are currently taxable, however lower-income people are able to exclude more of their benefits from federal taxation**
3. What is the combined percentage rate of income paid to FICA by the employee and employer?  **?**
4. Which Medicare parts are optional and means tested? **Part B and D are optinal and means tested, which stipulates that ... ?**
5. Does Medicare cover 100% of a senior eligible's medical expenses? **?** 